{
    "article_headline": "School environment affects children\u2019s learning abilities",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "When a child whizzes down a playground slide he s learning physics, pure and simple. And when that child studies the shap>e formed by touching his ten fingertips together, he's observing an art basic\u2014positive form and negative space. Discovering educational concepts in the physical environment, and designing effective learning environments was the topic of a slide-illustrated talk presented here Thursday by Dr. Anne Taylor, a professor of art education and architecture at the University of New Mexico. For the last 15 years Taylor has worked to \"marry education with architecture.\" That is, she considers architecture a medium to teach ideas. In her work designing schools, Taylor pays close attention to the learning needs of children, incorporating educational concepts into every aspect of the structure and the objects tlut fill it. In an optimal learning environment, Taylor said, the doors, lighting, furnishings, even the walls \"represent some of the concepts that conte right out of the curriculum that we teach from textbooks.\u201d One illustration of this was a slide showing a snaall cubicle with mirrors on all four inside walls. It is an art center where children draw their likeness on the mirror by tracing over their image. Taylor said the children are able to draw with great detail this way and she found improvement in later artwork. The mirrored space also presents the difficult concept of infinity in a way children can see. Round forms are used as much as possible in the play areas Taylor designs because, she said, they permit eye contact and promote socialization. To implement some of her ideas would cost more than to build a standard elementary schoolroom, but Taylor also utilizes often overlooked learning tools that are part of any schoolroom. For example, thousands of dollars are spent every year on teaching aids that show children how various mechanical systems work. Taylor\u2019s philosophy is to uncover some of those systems, such as plumbing and heating, so the students could learn by simply looking at the exposed pipe system. Another design that Taylor said has been very successful in two ways is a solar greenhouse. Children, who are egocentric, learned to nurture life outside themselves in the greenhouse. The circulating heat system, she added, provided a good comparison to teach ttem about their own circulatory systems. \u201cChildren learn a great many things by themselves,\u201d Taylor said, \u201cbut the environment must be well designed and optimally provisioned.\u201d",
    "publication": "1983-47-118",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "66",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "by Nancy Sringer StaH Wrllar",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "12",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "1",
    "article_number": "4"
}