{
    "article_headline": "Concert facilities needed for Cal Poly",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "   The ASI Concert Committee is still without a facility in which to hold concerts, and the chance to sign performers to a concert at Cal Poly before June is slipping away.    The Concert Committee, a part of the ASI Program Board, has been without a facility to hold concerts since October when Jim Hailey, Physical Education department head, refused to allow any more concerts in the gymnasium until further guidelines of gymnasium procedures could be drawn up.                                                                                                                                  The Concert Committee chaired by Jerry Morales and Bailey along with Harry Busselen. the dean of the School of Human Development and Education, have up with guidelines acceptable to the thfoe of them, but are waiting for approval from the university\u2019s Facility Use Committee.    The Facility Uae Committee la a standing committee chaired by Provost Tomlinson Fort, Jr. Its function is to interpret regulations concerning the use of campus facilities. The group only meets on call as issues arise, according to Morales.    Morales said he and the rest of the Concert Committee members have been waiting two weeks for the Facility Use Committee to make a general endorsement of the- new guidelines for concert procedures, and will probably wait another week while the members of the Facility Use Committee respond to a proposal Fort sent to each of the members.    If the committee members generally agree to the new guidelines, the Concert Committee can bid on performers for possible concerts on campus spring quarter, according to Morales.                 ,    The situation is frustrating for the 106-member Concert Committee because until the committee has a guaranteed facility to use, it cannot enter any contracts with a performing group, Morales said.    \u201cWe won\u2019t even consider bidding, which means Concerts is at a standstill,\u2019\u2019 remarked Morales. \"It's very frustrating for the committee because we haven\u2019t been able to do anything about concerts. As a result we\u2019re going to lose out on a lot of acts.\u2019\u2019    Morales said the performers that are available before June have been finalizing their tour dates over the past two weeks. As a consequence. Cal Poly\u2019s, chance of contracting one of these acts is getting slimmer as they wait for the Facility Uae Committee to makes decision.   \u201cThere were some concerns he had that we didn't know were causing problems,\" said Morales. The biggest issue was the use of the gym floor.   In the past, the Concert Committee has tried to control the entry of people wearing hard-soled shoes on the floor, the amount of smoking and the abuse of the gym floor. \u201cHowever with 3,000 people in there with a sold-out concert, it\u2019s almost inevitable someone will light up a cigarette.\u201d said Morales.   Railey feels the facility was built as a physical education area and the use of the facility should be for those purposes. \"The gym was not built for concerts, it was built for participatory activities,\" he said.   But the Concert Committee still needs a facility, said Morales. \u201cWe understand it is a f 11 pings to be able to use it, and we feel we can work together since we don\u2019t have one to use,\" he said.   One of Railey\u2019s biggest complaints was a gouge in the wooden floor that was taken out when the stage platform was moved in for the Motels concert.   \u201cThe gouge is thare forever, because wa can\u2019t sand it out,\" said Rjuley.   To protect the floor in the future, guidelines state a plastic floor covering will be laid across the floor from bleacher to bleacher for all sit down concerts.   Shoe checks will also be more strictly enforced to prevent hard-soled shoos, and smoking, food and drink will be forbidden in the gym.   Another problem is caused by the lobby doors being blocked during concerts, said Railey. Previously, the lobby doors hava baan used aa an entry for madia, but this mads it difficult for any faculty who wanted to enter thair offices during a concert.    Hailey said that the last few concerts have been held on Sunday and Monday nights when faculty would be using their offices. \u201cIt causes a special problem for coaches who work seven days a week during the season,\u201d ha added.    Guidelines now state that the media door will be moved to the main entrance so as not to obstruct entry to the lobby of the gym. A security officer will be stationed at the media door as well. ^    Railey said he is still concerned about the entire building being shut down for a concert being held in one area of the building. \u201cStudents by the droves come in to workout on the weekends and dosing the building obstructs their right to use the building,\u201d he said. No solution for that problem is stated in the guidelines.    Performers have also abused parts of the building, according to Railey. He said rooms used by the performers have smelled so strongly of marijuana that \u201cinstructors reported that they couldn't breathe.\"    As a result, the wrestling room will no longer be used as a snack bar and classrooms will no longer be used as dressing rooms for performers and concert workers. Instead, trailers or motor homes, when needed, will be moved to the back of the gym for dressing or rest areas for the performers, guidelines state.    Other guidelines deal with crowd control procedures. Because of police concern, concert-goers will not be allowed to line up for concerts until four hours before the performance. That lineup used to be able to start at 6 a.m. the morning of the concert, but Railey believes that encourages people to bring coolers and motivates them to \u201cget bombed out and throw up during the concert.\u201d    For crowd control procedures, guidelines state professional security groups will continue to be hired for large-scale concerts to help control concert-goers, prevent smoking, prevent disruptive behavior and pre-   vent illegal activity like the use of drugs, alcohol or ; any campus violation.     Other new procedures included in the list of guidelines refer to specific dean up duties to be completed by the Concert Committee after the concerts.     Morales said the Concert Committee has investigated alternative sites to hold a concert, but none is as good as the gym.     Chumash Auditorium has been cancelled out as a possible site for two reasons, said Morales. The auditorium is small, so the performers would have to stage two shows in order for the Concert Committee to break even. Morales also thinks there is not enough in-treet in small groups at a concert.     The second reason, said Morales, is the weak floor. No dances can be held in the auditorium because of the floor, and many of the concerts encourage dancing.     Morales said the committee has considered holding another concert in the University Union Plaza like it did last year with the Plimsoula and Kingbees. If permission is granted for an outdoor concert, Morales . thinks the concert could be controlled and planned in such a way that it would end early.     Several nearby residents, including President Warren Baker, complained of the noise from the concert last year. \"I still hope in the future we can have another outdoor concert.\u201d said Morales, \u201cmaybe in Poly Grove.\u201d     The Concert Committee even checked alternative sites off campus such as the Cuesta College gym, but problems exist with that solution also, said Morales.     Both gyms on Cuesta College campus seat 1,600 lees people than the Cal Poly gym, he said, adding it is also difficult to get the buildings for ues.     \u201cWe missed out on holding a Madness concert on March 2 because of paper work,\" said Morales. According to him, the Concert Committee asked to use one of the gyms at Cuesta. Cuesta officials were hesitant because the gyms are rarely rented out for outside use, but they made an exception and granted it.     \u201cBy the time we got approval and got back to the agent, we were a day late. The agent had accepted another group's bid,\" said Morales. \u201cIt just took too long to get the gym at Cuesta.\"    Poly Canyon was another alternative site for a concert, said Morales, but security would be impossible to control and the road to the canyon is not big enough to carry the equipment.",
    "publication": "1984-48-075",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "75",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "by Nancy LmtIs",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "39",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "1, 5, 9",
    "article_number": "1"
}