{
    "article_headline": "Actioiis say more than words",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "        Itojjfeltad Stated and tha Soviet Union ate two bahamoths in a faceoff.         We ate like two old stags. Neither of ue wants to fight but neither wanta to back down either. We are at an iwy\u2014 that haa lasted for decades and the tenaion is not abating-/         Efforts have been .made in the past to try to relieve some of that tension. Opportunities have occasionally arisen in which we had a chance to better relations with each other. We took advantage of some. On other occasions we blew it.         We have another of those opportunities now. The death of the president of the Soviet Union resulted in the appointment of a new Soviet leader, Konstantin U. Chernenko.         The late Yuri V. Andropov, for whatever reasons, was either unable or unwilling to negotiate much with the United States. The new leader comes from a different element of the Soviet top eschelon and it is hoped by Washington that he will be more willing to cooperate in achieving some progress toward peace.         Washington can talk all it wants, but it is actions that count. The Soviets will be watching us more narrowly than ever during this time of transition. How interested they are in talking with the United States will hinge on what they see us saying and doing in the international theater.         It is up to us to keep our noses clean. President Reagan has indicated a desire to improve ties between our nation and the USSR. But words don't carry much weight in the Soviet Union. They don\u2019t trust us any more than we trust them. It is what we do that counts.         Our government in Washington needs to decide whether it is more important to scurry around the world interfering in this revolution or that civil war, ship arms to Western Europe, or to back off and demonstrate our seriousness in wanting to discuss peace.         We do not need to hamstring our defenses to show the Russians we mean business. But they will take us much more seriously if President Reagan shows them, not just tells them, that America wants to achieve a mutually acceptable peaceful relationship with the Soviet Union.",
    "publication": "1984-48-075",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "78",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": null,
    "number_of_paragraphs": "9",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "2",
    "article_number": "4"
}