{
    "article_headline": "The Curry trial: a different perspective",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "On Tuesday, April 9. the Mustan/i Daily published an article by Janet Altieri, who was introduced in an editor's note as a ffuest opinion writer. Altieri's article concerned the pending trial of Kenneth Curry, or more specifically some of the actions which have been taken regarding Curry s case as he awaits trial for the 1984 murders of Cal Poly students Viola Ada and Steven Braun. That the Mustann Daily encourages opinion from outside the campus community is commendable and it is clearly attorney representing the Telegram-Tribune. The District Attorney argued that, because of the highly sensational nature of this case in this community, pre-trial publicity would make it difficult to impanel an unbiased and impartial jury. By presenting this argument the District Attorney was not only trying to protect his case, he was arguing to protect the Sixth Amendment rights of the defendant to \u201ca speedy and public trial by an impartial jury of the State and district wherein the crime shall have been committed.\u201d understood that when such writings appear they do not necessarily reflect the opinions of the editorial staff. The Mustang Daily should, however, take the responsibility to assure that the writings which are presented to its readers, even those published as opinion, are at least factually correct. There were some very misleading factual errors in .Altieri's article which need to be corrected. \u25a0Altieri wrote that the files in the Curry case were \"ordered sealed by the District Attorney despite complaints that no com-[lelling reason had lieen given to,., justify the action ' The District Attorney does not have the authority to seal files which are public record in this case or any case; such action can only lie taken by the Court. The files in the Curry case were ordered sealeckby Municipal Court Judge Donald Umhoffer in an op>en court proceeding at the request of t he District Attorney s office. Also in court that day was an The attorney for the Telegram-Tribune in turn argued that pre-trial publicity did not necessarily threaten the Court\u2019s ability to impanel an impartial jury, that a remedy through a change of venue would exist if it was later determined to be impossible to impanel an impartial jury, and that the public\u2019s right to know the facts in this case outweighed the District Attorney's concerns about publicity Judge Umhoffer found in favor of the District Attorney and ordered sealed all records in the Curry case which had not already iHHm made public. THe Court's order will remain in effect only until Curry is actually brought to trial, at which time the records will l>e opened and the public and the press will have access to them. In cases such as this, the Court must determine if the dangers inherent in prior restraint of the press are outweighed by a clear and present danger threatening some greater right. Judge Umhoffer apparently decided that Curry 's rights to a fair trial, conducted locally, were of greater importance than the public's right to have access to information about the case before the start of the trial. It must be understood that Judge Umhoffer\u2019s action did not prohibit access to the records by Curry or his attorney. The defendant's access to the prosecution's records is assured by the right of discovery. In San Luis Obipso County the discovery process is automatic and a copy of the case records is presented to every defendant during the initial stages of the pre-trial procedures. Altieri wrote that \u201cboth the suspect's Sixth Amendment rights and the First Amendment rights of the press have been compromised.\u201d This is clearly not the case. The First Amendment prohibits passage of any law abridging the freedom of the press. Temporarily sealing the records of the Curry case was accomplished through due process of law and by and order of the Court. The decision has not been appealed. The records of subsequent pre-trial proceedings, such as the preliminary hearing, have also been ordered sealed. The same arguments were presented by the same attorneys, the same judgment was made, and that decision has not been appealed. .-\\lt hough it is safe to assume that the Telegram-Tribune is not particularly happy with the Court's decisions, its editors and attorney apparently do not feel that the Court has violated the First Amendment. The Telegram-Tribune, in fact, has for the most part demonstratcni commendable restraint in accepting the spirit of the Court's ' locisipn and has not resorted to I )ublishing speculation in place of act. Curry's Sixth Amendment ights have not been compromis-[sd but have been carefully pro-f.ected. The judicial process is proceeding at a reasonably hpeedy pace with any delays paving occurred at the request of he defense. The trial will be [jubbc and every effort has been I nade to assure that Curry is ried by an impartial jury in the [listrict where the crime was rommitted. It is Curry's right hot to have to seek a change of |Venue but to be tried locally. A hange of venue is not a remedy 0       be sought casually. True, as Altieri wrote, it \u2022reates an inconvenience for at-orneys and witnesses and it is [in expensive burden for the tax-i)ayer to bear. But it also creates 1       hardship for the defendant, [vhose attorney's time is taken 1 ip by travel and who is often ienied bv distance the most )asic creature comfort of having f'utsule vjsitors during in-arceration. It is important to loie that i'urry s (wn attorney not protested the District Attorneys actions to seal the ecords of this ca.se. apparently [ifereeing that it was in his lient's best interests to do so. Altieri wrote that \u201cour com-I nunity has a right to examine urther evidence to determine [vhether or not these assertions \u25a0onstitute sufficient evidence . . . o hold one of its citizens pending [i local trial.\" It is not the role of he community to make this [letermination, it is the role of^ he Court. The Court has already . ulfilled this responsibility in Jurry's case; the result of the [)reliminary hearing, when such hings are considered, was that here was sufficient evidence [iresented to justify bringing [;^urry to trial. That the community has the t ight to examine the'evidence is [lot'the point in question. What rnust be considered is at what [joint the rights of the communi-y and the rights of the defen-llant are best in balance. It must |je remembered that the interests [jf'the community are. strongly ! epresented on both sides of this jjalance, for the community has a trong interest in seeing that the i lefendant receives a fair trial. If. fler a fair trial, Curry is found innocent, the obvious implication fs that the actual jjerpetrator is till at large, creating a threat to he community. If. on the other [ land. Curry is found guilty but lis conviction is later overturned jjecause his trial in some way was jiot fair, he becomes a threat to he community again and an ex-1 lensive burden if he is re-tried. A last factual error was com-[nitted by Altieri when she Ivrote, \"one of our citizens is be- ing incarcerated without a chance to reveal evidence that might prove him innocent.\u201d Curry is not being denied the right to present any evidence in his behalf; he can and will present his evidence in the proper forum, his trial. By making this statement Altieri essentially confirms the argument presented by the District Attorney when he requested that the records be sealed, that if the evidence was released to the pubUc this case would be tried in the press rather than in the courtroom. There are additional statements in Altieri's article which cannot be demonstrated to be in error, just as they cannot be considered fact.' They are speculation and it is proper that they be labeled as such, lest a reader be misled, Altieri wrote that there is an \"abundance of confused and vague ballistics in-, formation\" developed by testing the weapons taken from Curry. The results of the ballistics tests were included in the investigative reports which were sealed; there is at thLs tmie no way of knowing the\u201enature and content of those reports and certainly no way of knowing if thev are confused and vague. ,\\llieri also wrote that, in ordering that the records of the case l)e sealed, the gag is placed not on evidence that' might prejudice the public regarding the suspect's possible guilt, but rather on what might prove his potential innocence.\u201d This is pure speculation, for none except the parties directly involved have knowledge of what is included in those reports and what they will or will not prove. The conflicts between the public's right to know and a defendant's right to a fair trial or a victim's right to privacy are inherent in our system of government. They are conflicts which will not be resolved easily or quickly, although they seem always to be under consideration by our courts and legislatures. To express one's opinion about such matters, as Altieri has done and as I am doing now. is healthy, but only when that which is presented as fact is indeed factual In the physical sciences it is true that discovery and progress is built on speculation; in matters of the social sciences, however, we are neither so burdened nor so blessed with absolutes and lo speculate, especially about things which are known but simply have not been revealed to us. is irresponsible. Editor's note: Patti L Wilhelm is president of the California Lau Enforcment Association of Records Supervisors, and has worked for the Cal Poly Department of Public Safety for five years. Her views do not necessarily reflect those of the Mustang Daily Editorial Board.",
    "publication": "1985-49-097",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "92",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": null,
    "number_of_paragraphs": "18",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "2, 3",
    "article_number": "5"
}