{
    "article_headline": "Environmental problems are alarming",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "Today let\u2019s talk about ecotastrophe. What? Yes, ecotastrophe. It\u2019s sort of a word from about 1970. The early \u201970s were the heyday of environmentalism in this country when lots of people began to look seriously at problems such as air and water pollution and depletion of resources. Some people, including some very knowledgable ones, predicted that at the rate things were going, our delicate ecosystem would not tolerate humanity\u2019s abuses much longer. Even then, most proponents of ecotastrophe were labeled as extremists and alarmists. And today, during a decade in which people seem much more concerned with their incomes than the quality of their air and water, predictions of environmental disaster are not receiving much attention at all. As you might have guessed, my sympathies are with the ecotastrophists. Geologically, IS years is a negligible time and the verdict is not in yet on most of their warnings^ And what\u2019s wrong with being an alarmist if that means expressing alarm at a potentially caudysmic danger? Here are just a few of the environmental problems which could make our lives miserable, or even impossible, in the next century or so. Destractloa of the Earth\u2019s OaoM Layer. It\u2019s well-known that the stratosphere\u2019s layer of ozone, which absorbs much of the sun\u2019s ultraviolet radiation, is steadily being destroyed by various effects of industrial society. These include nuclear testing, jet plane emissions, auto emissions, agricultural fertilizers and aerosol spray cans. Recently, careful measurements indicate that as much as 0.3 percent per year is being lost worldwide. At that rate, in less than 100 years it will be impossible to go outside when the sun is out. But long before that, perhaps in only 20 years, plankton will be unable to reproduce, throwing the Earth\u2019s fo^ chain into chaos. CoalamluatioB of Groaid Water. In the \u201970s there was much publicity given to successful clean-up efforts of polluted lakes and rivers. The \u201980s are bringing us a rude surprise: pollution (plus depletion) of ground water, though less visible than pollution of lakes and rivers, is a much more serious problem, in part because no one has any idea how to clean it up. The list of highly toxic chemicals which continue to find their way into our drinking water is incredibly alarming. By now almost every state has located serious ground water contamination. In California, Central Valley agriculture has caused major water problems, and even the supposedly \u201cclean\u201d Silicon Vidley microchip industry has severely polluted local water. Will life be tolerable in a world where the most readily available sources of water are too polluted to drink and perhaps even to wash in? PoUatloB BBd ovcrflahlag of the occaas. Directly and indirect- ly (via lakes and rivers), industrialized society has used the oceans as its main garbage can. Of course once our waste pro-ducts make it to the ocean, they can proceed to kill and contaminate ocean life. Marine biologists concerned about the huge increase in the concentration of toxic metals such as mercury, lead and cadmium estimate at least 23 percent of the DDT ever produced is now in the ocean. At the same time, high-powered modem fishing techniques have overfished many important fisheries almost to extinction. Jacques Cousteau estimates the total amount of ocean life today is less than half of what it was in 1900. Life on this planet began in the ocean. If we kill the oceans off, will life on land be able to survive? Radiadoa and Nadcar Waste. In the past 40 years, significant quantities of highly radioactive, long-lived isotopes have been created by nuclear weapons testing and the nuclear power industry. At least the nuclear industry is regulated much more carefully than, say, the chemical waste industry. However, the military and its nuclear wastes are not so carefully regulated. The verdict is no( yet in on whether our generation will solve this problem, but if we don\u2019t, future generations (if any) may curse us for our stupidity.",
    "publication": "1986-50-091",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "17",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "Bob Wolf",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "9",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "2",
    "article_number": "5"
}