{
    "article_headline": "Design contest results in: nolstplace",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "No first place award was given in the Dexter Building/Landmark com[>etition because none of the entrants satisfactorily solved all of the significant requirements, according to a judges\u2019 repiort which will be made public tonight. The winning design will not be constructed during spring quarter as originally planned, but the second and third prize winners will still receive the promised cash awards, said landscape * architecture professor Alice Loh. The award winners were originally announced on March 10, but no explanation was given as to why there was no first prize. Loh, who was a senior project adviser for the competition and one of the judges, said in a competition a reason is not necessary. Judges need only to announce the winners. In the competition, students were asked to redesign the entrance to the Dexter Building near the Cellar. The remodeled Dexter Building now houses the departments of art, city afuj regional planning and landscape architecture. Guidelines for the competition, which is a senior project of three landscape architecture students, required the designs \u201cto identify the departments within, to make the entrance visible and to be a viable exterior space.\" Also, some kind of landmark should be the focus of the space, as specified in the competition requirements. According to the judges' report, the second place design failed to create a clear, distinctive landmark identity for the departments involved. The two-nun architecture team which won second place said they used colored banners as part of their design, because they felt the area would stand out from other parts of the campus. F^ank Dost, one of the second place winners, said: **I think ours met the criteria.\u201d Dave Oal, a junior landscape architecture major, said by definition a landmark is something different from its surroun- dingi. Many of the other students-who entered said there were communication problems and the competition requirements were unclear. However, Loh said, the students who had organized the competition held a meeting at the beginning to address some of the entrants* questions about the designs. The other senior project adviser for the competition, landscape architecture professor Gary Dwyer, said the primary reason for the competition was that it is very difficult to describe where anything is at Cal Poly. \u201cVisitors have enormous difficulty identifying where anything is on this campus,\u201d he said. \"The landmark was simply an attempt to provide a space that was more readily identifiable.\u201d Dwyer, who required the students in one of his classes last quarter to turn in competition submittals, said many of the designs he saw were good. Although many of the submitted designs were impractical, Dwyer said, they weig provocative and exciting attempu to solve a complex issue. Charlie Daniels, a landscape architecture junior, said the fact that no one was awarded fust place was an insult to a lot of people who entered the competition. According to Loh, the competition will be held again in September and the $300 first prize will be added into next year\u2019s prize monies, making the award worth double the apiount next year. Loh stressed the prize money was not taken from this year\u2019s, entrance fees but in fact came from money sponsored by the Alice C. Loh for Women in Environmental Design Competition Award. Loh said the entry fee money went to the organizers of the competition. Oiie of the student organizers, landscape architecture major Elaine Shaw, said the money should have gone for prizes and contest costs, with any remainder donated to the con- struction of the winning design. Some of the students who entered the competition also expressed concern about where all of the money was going and believed that more money was being taken in than had been put forth. Loh said she plans to advise the organizers to make the competition\u2019s budget available to the public and said she trusa the organizers\u2019 intentions. \u201c1 think there is some confusion, but I don\u2019t think there\u2019s any intention of unethical behavior,\u201d Dwyer said. According to Loh, she and the otbCT judges hope everyone sees this competition as a podtive experience instead of a negative one. \u201cI\u2019ll be willing to try again next year,\u201d Doet said. The judges\u2019 evaluation statement regarding the competition outcome will be potted tonight at a public reception to be held in the Architecture Building Gallery at 7*J0.",
    "publication": "1986-50-091",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "16",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "By Taffy Renkowitz",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "28",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "1, 12",
    "article_number": "2"
}