{
    "article_headline": "Public Safety to give fines",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "Because an increasing number of Cal Poly students and faculty members are improperly displaying their parking permits, the Public Safety Department will soon be Pining violators. Beginning April 14, parking officers will issue S3 citations to vehicles on which permits have been improperly placed. This comes after years of not enforcing university parking regulations as stated in the Cal Poly Handbook of Parking Rules, said Cindy Campbell, Public Safety parking officer. . According to Campbell, parking officers recently have found themselves spending an increasingly longer amount of time \"searching on our hands and knees for the permits.\u201d Such permit searches not only coat parking officers valuable time, but in turn cost the Public Safety Department more money, she said. The only correct placement for perihanently affixed parking pcrmiu is on the right rear bumper Of the vehicle, according to the official rules. The Parking Handbook also specifics that a floating parking permit \u2014 one that is detMhable ~ may be issued to an individiul who Is In a car pool or owns and registers more than one vehicle to a single permit. A floating permit can also be used if the vehicle bumper design will not accommodate afflxing the permit, specifically if there' is no bumper or if it\u2019s wooden, cor-rigated, painted, Fiberglas,,. plastic or rubber, said Campbell. Floating permits must be hung from the rearview mirror or from a flipped-down sun visor, with the writing on the permit facing toward the back of the vehicle, according to the handbook. Daily or weekly parking permits can only be legally be placed face up in the center of the dashboard. CiUtiolis will be issued if any out-of-date parking permiu have not been removed from vehicle bumpers after they have expired, the rules stipulate. Individuals who receive fines for any of the above parking permit violations will have 14 days to appeal the ciution or pay the fine, s^ Campbell. If the violation errors are corrected in that 14-day period and the vehicle is Uken to the Public Safety Department to prove that, the citation will be voided, stesaid.",
    "publication": "1986-50-091",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "15",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "By Rebecca Manner",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "13",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "1, 7",
    "article_number": "3"
}