{
    "article_headline": "Round one: Won?",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "Round one of this great presidential boxing match is over, and the results are of course mixed. Both parties threw their best one-liner punches, but few crucial answers were voiced. That makes it even more imperative that the public tunc in to the second debate, scheduled for Oct. 13 or 14. On Oct. 5 the running mates will have at it. In this day of the 30-second spot, one-liners often get more attention than real answers. Disappointingly, neither candidate gave many substantial answers. They dressed for success, polished their public images, had a wealth of information about their opponents\u2019 weak points, but neither provided brilliant answers to problems. For some viewers, off-the-cuff remarks become the focus of the debates, with little else to go by. Don\u2019t give up, however tempting it may be. It is important to pay attention to the debates, to the media blitz (not the 10-second televsion bleeps, but in-depth articles in better publications). If Bush is elected, he will most certainly pack in a solidly conservative Supreme Court, a legacy that will live with us well into the next century. The next president may be able to appoint as many as 160-200 lower court judges. The conservatives are systematically trying to reverse the gains of the whole civil rights era. Women seeking abortions will be branded criminals if Bush is elected. And what leaps will Bush make in the quest for better race relations? Who will he be accountable to, if even now we can\u2019t get him to account for his role in the Iran-Contra scandal? A long resume is OK, if quantity is complemented by quality. Then there is Senator Dan Quayle. If the phrase \u201cPresident Quayle\u201d isn\u2019t enough to make America wake up sweating in the middle of the night, Americans are sleeping much too soundly. There are still a few months before the election. If you haven\u2019t been paying attention, start now. This election is not unimportant. As students, think what the Reagan/Bush administration has done for financial aid. What financial aid, you might rightly ask. At this point in the election, the Mustang Daily editorial staff is endorsing Michael Dukakis as the candidate of choice.",
    "publication": "1988-53-005",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "42",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": null,
    "number_of_paragraphs": "8",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "2",
    "article_number": "5"
}