{
    "article_headline": "Environomically speaking",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "Students during the \u201860s and \u201870s more than any other group led America to a new way of thinking. No other issue more illustrated this than the environmentalist movement. What has become of the passion surrounding this issue? While it has far from died out, with attention put on the greenhouse effect and other subjects, it seems to have taken a back seat to economic isues. Those \u201860s and \u201870s students now turned teachers, office workers, parents and even business people, seem to put more attention on mortgages, car payments and their children\u2019s own education than the environmental idealism of the recent past. And what of America\u2019s current students? Is the economic emphasis, including future careers and making big money, much more important than any ecological idealism? Has the 1980s environmentalism simply become a negative movement, one that says \u2018No!\u2019 to needed housing, new businesses, new energy sources, etc., dividing communities into uncompromising factions? As both a \u201870s envrionmentalist student and an \u201880s parent who owns a small business. I\u2019ve seen both the environmental and economic sides of many issues in the last 10 years. Any questions that arise may be answered by solving one final question: What is the true relationship between basic economic laws and environmental causes? After studying hundreds of environmental and economic issues there is almost without exception only one answer: The more that basic free market economic laws are violated, the greater the en- vironmental destruction. This blending of environmentalism and economic laws is a new approach 1 call Environomics. There are basic Environomic laws that, if followed, will limit both environmental and economic damages: * Pricing all commodities such as water, metals, energy and houses at free market rates that include all costs of obtaining, manufacturing and distributing the commodities; \u2022Not subsidizing these commodities with government funding; \u2022In supplying these commodities, do not set up government mandated monopolies distorting the pricing, costs, supplies and need for each commodity; \u2022Allowing the supply of these commodities to be provided privately based on free market supply and demand laws; \u2022Protecting the rights of property owners or those using the property with permission of the property owner from dangerous pollution, radiation, loss of property and other property violations; \u2022Protecting the property rights from government intervention destructive to aesthetics or property environment. Here are some examples of how Environomics works: Nuclear power:\tthe Price- Anderson Congressional Act limits a nuclear plant\u2019s liablility in case of an accident \u2014 no other industry gets this limitation \u2014 and nuclear power plants are built and run by government subsidized monopolies; violates my first four laws, sometimes the fifth and sixth. Water: federal, state and local governments first subsidize water projects then sell the water below market rates, both preventing private companies from becoming involved in supplying water and resulting in huge amounts of \u201ccheap\u201d water to be wasted; also violates laws 1-4, and sometimes S and 6 with dam and underground projects. Offshore oil: leases of federal waters, the property of U.S. citizens, sometimes is below market rates, without the consent of a majority of citizens or results in significant air or water pollution; violates laws 1-3,5 and 6. By combining the environmentalism fo the \u201860s and \u201870s with the economic realities of the \u201880s, a new coalition of business and property owners, fiscal conservatives and environmentalists can carry the concept of of Environomics on into the 1990s and beyond in a cooperative manner that will resolve many of the environmental and economic issues facing us today. The idea that the economy and the environment are inseperable should be no suprise. Nearly all of what we put into the economy comes out of the natural environment. The natural environment is huge compared to the size or number of people, meaning, (with the exception of a few very toxic substances), that it takes huge, economically-expensive efforts to change it. Also, most pollution is simply waste that hurts the economies of polluted areas. So, can a person of the \u201880s be oriented toward a more economically prosperous future and not feel guilty about neglecting the environment we live in? Yes, by understanding the concept of Environomics and working together for a better future.",
    "publication": "1988-53-005",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "46",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "By Ron Bearce",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "23",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "3",
    "article_number": "9"
}