{
    "article_headline": "Poly: cultural wasteland",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "When 1 first started at Cal Poly, in fall 1986, I was immediately struck by how few minority students attend this school. As I walked around the campus my first few days here, 1 kept looking for Hispanic, Black and Asian students but what I mostly saw was white students. I had a hard time adjusting to this since I came from a university that was much more racially diverse than Cal Poly. I attended the University of Kansas, Lawrence, Kan., where students from Mexico, South America, the Middle East, Africa, Asia and the United States learned and lived together. Mexicans, Nicaraguans, Africans, Chinese, Koreans and students from many other countries and from here learned about each other by studying, partying and living together. 1 learned quite a bit about myself and about other races when I lived with a black student from Kansas City, Kan. and later, with a student from Cuba. I did not realize when I applied to Cal Poly that it was for the most part an all-white university. But I soon realized it after my first week here. Granted, there are minority students attending school here, but they are few in number. When I last worked for the Mustang Daily, as the minority affairs reporter, there were about 72 white students for every black student. 1 doubt that number has changed very much since then. By attending school here, students are being deprived of real education: how to get along with, learn about and understand students who come from a different racial background and culture than themselves. When white students graduate from Cal Poly they are in for a rude awakening if they think the outside world is just like life on campus. White students will have to learn on their own how to get along with clients, customers, coworkers, and bosses who are minorities. Has Cal Poly failed in teaching its white students about other cultures and races by having so few minority students attend this school? I think so. By lacking in the cultural diversity found at other universities. Cal Poly is depriving its students of an important, and essential, aspect of college education \u2014 learning how to accept others by talking, socializing and learning together. I know many people at Cal Poly are working hard to increase the number of minority students on campus, but they are facing an uphill battle. Some black students I\u2019ve talked with, and I\u2019m certain other minority students feel the same, feel out of place and unwelcome on this campus sometimes, simply because they are a different race. It would be difficult, if not impossible, for recruiters to drastically increase the minority population on campus because minority high school students realize how few blacks, Hispanics and Asians attend Cal Poly. How can you sell minority students on this school if you can\u2019t guarantee them they will feel welcome or have a large support network of other minority students? It disturbs me when 1 hear white students question how minority students can get into school here. I\u2019ve heard some white students say blacks and other minorities only get into Cal Poly because of minority quotas. How ignorant, cruel and small-minded can students be? I hope that is not the prevailing attitude white students hold toward minority students. When I see blacks, hispanics and Asians on campus I do not question how they got here. Instead, I wish there were more minority students like them here. The next time you are walking to class in a sea of white faces think about what you are missing out on by attending Cal Poly.",
    "publication": "1988-53-005",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "44",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "By Jeff Blizzard",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "10",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "2",
    "article_number": "6"
}