{
    "article_headline": "Temporary shelter might close",
    "article_subheading": null,
    "article_text": "If a permanent building location for a homeless shelter is not found by Oct. 31, the Salvation Army announced that it will fold the umbrella it has held over the San Luis Obispo homeless since Feb. I. The Salvation Army has been providing a small van to transport the homeless from City Hall to its shelter on Kansas Avenue. The shelter has an open fire and grill to heat canned foods, two 6B-by-2(>-foot open trailers and 20 cots with blankets for overnight lodging. Without refrigeration, storage and washing facilities, the Salvation Army says it feels its efforts to provide humane protectorship have been crippled. Of the two trailers provided, only one has electricity, said Site Director Jennifer Abbott, emphasizing that exposed electrical wires in the one trailer endanger nighttime users. Leaks in both trailers also cause the growth of mold and mildew, she said. Abbott said the shelter would close if thoroughly inspected by health officials. Captain Dan Hughes of the Salvation Army told Coun-cilmembers that because the health and safety of the program coordinators is at risk, he feels it is time to find a more permanent facility. San Luis Obispo Coalition for the Homeless Chairman George Moylan said the community must find something workable that will continue to be sup- ported. \u201cAny proposal in any zone does not specifically allow for a shelter ... but this leaves an opening for legal problems,\u201d he said. Moylan pointed out that there are only three options in dealing with the homeless iuiie. \u201cThese people can either be eliminated, institutionalized or sheltered,\u201d Moylan said. \u201cThe first went out with Hitler, the second is more than society is willing to pay and the third is one way of inexpensively confronting the problem.\u201d The homeless coalition includes representatives from the Economic Opportunity Council, Women\u2019s and People\u2019s Shelter, Red Cross, city and county officials and other non-profit organizations within the county. From November 1987 to June 1988, the city provided the Salvation Army with $17,172. An additional $18,000, only 14 percent of the Salvation Army\u2019s budget, will be given by the end of 1988. The county gave the Salvation Army $45,000 from November 1987 through June 1988 and will finish the year with another $39,750 allotment. Abbott said the funding is approximately one quarter of what they need to provide a quality shelter and staff to handle the number of homeless. Councilmembers have received complaints from parents that their children are being frightened by the irrational behavior of the homeless. Reports of homeless people defecating on private property also angered Mayor Ron Dunin. Dunin repremanded the Salvation Army, telling them to supervise their clients more thoroughly so they would not disrupt the lives of residents. Dunin also threatened to stop city support of the program. \u201cThe population of San Luis Obipso is becoming hostage to this small group of people,\u201d Dunin told Salvation ficials. Director Toni Flynn responded by saying that the Salvation Army cannot monitor the behavior of the homeless after they leave their pick up site, shelter and drop off location. \"We\u2019re doing the best we can, but we can\u2019t follow them around all day. They are citizens and we have no authority to tell them what they can and cannot do,\u201d said Flynn. Councilmembers last week concluded. t|at the safety and welfare of the neighborhood holds priority over tie needs of the homeless. But i3)w workers at City Hall are ^mplaining about the loitering fad use of bathroom facilities. jCity officials continue to jscuss possible solutions to the ])meless problem. The problems are said to continue regardless of the pick up and drop off location. The problem is not lack of money or too few volunteers. The problem is locating an acceptable shelter for the homeless. Salvation Army representatives said they feel that their requests for property are rejected because no one wants the homeless next door.",
    "publication": "1988-53-005",
    "link_image": [],
    "id": "41",
    "article_date": "today",
    "author": "By ChrifdBC C. Temple",
    "number_of_paragraphs": "24",
    "link_article": [],
    "page_number": "1, 7",
    "article_number": "4"
}